---
layout: post
title:  "Very Peri"
date:   2021-12-09
categories: [Links]
tags: [design, life, coronavirus]
link: https://www.latimes.com/lifestyle/story/2021-12-08/shop-for-gifts-in-pantones-color-of-the-year-2022-at-these-la-stores
---

Lisa Boone for the LA Times:

>Pantone’s Color of the Year announcement is often met with both curiosity and derision — in part because so many of the color choices seem so, well, basic: Classic Blue in 2020, Ultra Violet (purple) in 2018, Emerald (green) in 2013, all from their existing inventory of hues.
>
>This year, however, for the first time in 23 years, the design world’s color experts have created a brand-new color to suit a world in transition: Very Peri, a warm shade of periwinkle blue with a violet red undertone.
>
>As with previous years, the Color of the Year was chosen based on more than just design trends. “It expresses the mood of consumers and captures the collective mood of the world,” explained Laurie Pressman, the vice president of the Pantone Color Institute, over Zoom. “But it is also about psychology: the emotion that is tied into it. How do we capture what we are going through right now? It’s a complex color, a dynamic color. That’s what makes the color so interesting. It is an empowering mix.”
>
>Leatrice Eiseman, executive director of the Pantone Color Institute, views the color as a futuristic take on blue. “It’s one of daring curiosity,” she said. “It’s an inquisitive color. It helps us to embrace this altered landscape.”

As I come back to the drawing board to reconsider design choices for my Jekyll theme Noir I have a feeling this warm, and well considered color is going to be incorporated in some manner.
